To find the size of the tree,
We can write a function size which takes the root
of the tree as the input and returns the size
which will be an integer.
Firstly if the root is null, then return zero. And this is
the base condition here. This base condition will handle two cases.
The first case is
if the tree is empty, then it will straight away
return zero and the second case is
If traversal reaches null, then it will return zero
and then for every other node, return one for
the particular node + its sub tree size
So write return one + size of sub tree
But there is left sub tree as well as right sub tree
Both size should be added. So this line of code
can be expanded as one + size of root-left
+ size of root-right.
Let us see how the code works. In the code,
first left recursion will be called and then right
recursion will be called. On each node we will
return one + size of its sub tree
So first the left recursion will be called till root-left
equal to null and once it is null
The calculation will start from the node 10
So here one + size of its left sub tree
and it's right sub tree for know done
There is no sub trees
Both are null. So it will return 0.
So one + zero + zero which is one will be returned and
then this sub tree will be calculated. Here also same
for the node 60
There is no sub tree. so one for node 60
and zero + zero will be returned as the size
of left and right sub trees.
So we will get one + zero + zero which
is one. Next control reaches to recursively call
for this sub tree and here the size will
be calculated and we have size of left sub tree
equal to one and size of right sub tree equal to one.
So size is equal to one + one + one
which is three.
Next control reaches to recursive call for this sub tree
So its size will be calculated and since it
has no child it's left and right sub tree size
will be zero. So size is equal
to one + zero + zero which is one.
Next this sub tree size will be calculated and here also we
will get one + zero + zero which is one
Next this sub tree size will be calculated and it will
be left sub tree size.
One + right sub tree size one + one which
will be three.
So left recursion and right recursion are completed
So we get one + left sub tree size three
+ right sub tree size three that is seven. So the
size of the given tree is equal to seven.